docs(sentry-basics): Consolidate tutorials into one getting-started tutorial (#18709)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/product/sentry-basics/getting-started-tutorial/create-new-project.mdx

Reviewer: I think this instruction is also handy above in the FE tutorial. It talks a good deal about the DSN, but not to copy it or keep it handy. I haven't used it yet in my setup, I've only created these two projects in Sentry.io.

description: "Learn how to create your Sentry projects, which will scope events to distinct pieces of your application landscape."
---

**Step 1 of 5**

<TutorialProgress step={1} />

In order to capture errors and other events, you need to have a project set up in Sentry. In this walkthrough we'll be creating a frontend project in React and a separate backend project in Express.

Because you can create a Sentry Project for _each_ language or framework used in your application (for example, you might have separate projects for your API server and frontend client), a single application might have multiple projects associated with it. Once you've set up all the projects that correspond to different parts of your application in Sentry, you'll be able to scope events to a distinct application in your organization and assign responsibility to specific users and teams. For more information, see [best practices for creating projects](/organization/getting-started/#4-create-projects).

## Create a Frontend Project

Follow the steps below to create a new Sentry project for a sample React application:

1. Log in to your [Sentry organization](https://sentry.io).

> 1. Select **Projects** from the left side navigation menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click on your organization's icon in the top left navigation, and select **Projects** from the menu.
```

   - **Name your project and assign it a team**: Name your project in the **Project name** field and assign a team by selecting one in the **Team** dropdown (or click **+** to create a new team).

   - Click **Create Project**. This takes you to the quick Configure React SDK guide, which provides an overview of how to configure the SDK.

   - You'll notice that the Sentry React SDK setup code comes pre-populated with the project's unique DSN (Data Source Name). The DSN tells the SDK where to send events, so events are associated with the right project. You'll need to paste the DSN key into the SDK configuration code later in the tutorial. You can make a note of it now, or you can also find a project's DSN anytime in **[Project] > Settings > SDK Setup > Client Keys (DSN)**

1. Click **Take me to Issues** to go to your new project's **Issues** page.

### UI Walkthrough

The interactive demo below walks through how to create a new project in the UI.

<Arcade src="https://demo.arcade.software/F1rYWFWiTE0S8wx9DKxS?embed" />

## Create a Backend Project

Next, follow these steps for the sample Backend app:

1. Log in to your [Sentry organization](https://sentry.io).

> 1. Select **Projects** from the left side navigation menu to display the list of all your projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Head back to the [Projects page](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/projects/)
```
